Chris Anderson: Sam, welcome to TED.
Thank you so much for coming.
Sam Altman: Thank you. It's an honor.
CA: Your company has been releasing
crazy insane new models
pretty much every other week
it feels like.
I've been playing with a couple of them.
I'd like to show you
what I've been playing.
So, Sora, this is the image
and video generator.
I asked Sora this:
What will it look like when you share
some shocking revelations here at TED?
You want to see
how it imagined it, you know?
(Laughter)
I mean, not bad, right?
How would you grade that?
Five fingers on all hands.
SA: Very close to what I'm wearing,
you know, it's good.
CA: I've never seen you
quite that animated.
SA: No, I'm not that animated of a person.
CA: So maybe a B-plus.
But this one genuinely astounded me.
When I asked it to come up with a diagram
that shows the difference
between intelligence and consciousness.
Like  how would you do that?
This is what it did.
I mean, this is so simple,
but it's incredible.
What is the kind of process
that would allow --
like this is clearly not just
image generation.
It's linking into the core intelligences
that your overall model has.
SA: Yeah, the new image
generation model is part of GPT-4o,
so it's got all
of the intelligence in there.
And I think that's one of the reasons
it's been able to do these things
that people really love.
CA: I mean, if I'm a management consultant
and I'm playing with some of this stuff,
I'm thinking, uh oh,
what does my future look like?
SA: I mean, I think there are
sort of two views you can take.
You can say, oh, man,
it's doing everything I do.
What's going to happen to me?
Or you can say,
like through every other
technological revolution in history,
OK, now there's this new tool.
I can do a lot more.
What am I going to be able to do?
It is true that the expectation
of what we’ll have for someone
in a particular job increases,
but the capabilities
will increase so dramatically
that I think it will be easy
to rise to that occasion.
CA: So this impressed me too.
I asked it to imagine Charlie Brown
as thinking of himself as an AI.
It came up with this.
I thought this was actually
rather profound.
What do you think?
(Laughs)
I mean, the writing quality
of some of the new models,
not just here, but in detail,
is really going to a new level.
SA: I mean, this is
an incredible meta answer,
but there's really no way to know
if it is thinking that
or it just saw that a lot of times
in the training set.
And of course like
if you can’t tell the difference,
how much do you care?
CA: So that's really interesting.
We don't know.
Isn't there though ...
like at first glance
this looks like IP theft.
Like you guys don’t have a deal
with the “Peanuts” estate?
(Applause)
You can clap about that
all you want, enjoy.
(Laughter and murmuring)
I will say that I think
the creative spirit of humanity
is an incredibly important thing,
and we want to build
tools that lift that up,
that make it so that new people
can create better art,
better content,
write better novels that we all enjoy.
I believe very deeply that humans
will be at the center of that.
I also believe that we probably
do need to figure out
some sort of new model
around the economics of creative output.
I think people have been building
on the creativity of others
for a long time.
People take inspiration for a long time.
But as the access to creativity
gets incredibly democratized
and people are building off
of each other's ideas all the time,
I think there are incredible
new business models
that we and others are excited to explore.
Exactly what that's going to look like,
I'm not sure.
Clearly, there’s some cut and dry stuff,
like you can’t copy someone else’s work.
But how much inspiration can you take?
If you say, I want to generate art
in the style of these seven people,
all of whom have consented to that,
how do you, like divvy up
how much money goes to each one?
These are like big questions.
But every time throughout history
we have put better
and more powerful technology
in the hands of creators.
I think we collectively get
better creative output
and people do just more amazing stuff.
CA: An even bigger question
is when they haven't consented to it.
In our opening session,
Carole Cadwalladr, showed, you know,
"ChatGPT give a talk in the style
of Carole Cadwalladr"
and sure enough, it gave a talk
that wasn't quite as good
as the talk she gave,
but it was pretty impressive.
And she said, "OK, it's great,
but I did not consent to this."
How are we going to navigate this?
Like isn’t there a way,
should it just be people who’ve consented?
Or shouldn’t there be a model
that somehow says that any
named individual in a prompt
whose work is then used,
they should get something for that?
SA: So right now, if you use
our image-gen thing and say,
I want something in the style
of a living artist,
it won't do that.
But if you say I want it in the style
of this particular like kind of vibe,
or this studio or this art movement
or whatever, it will.
And obviously if you’re like, you know,
output a song that is like a copy
of a song, it won't do that.
The question of like
where that line should be
and how people say like,
this is too much,
we sorted that out before
with copyright law
and kind of what fair use looks like.
Again, I think in the world of AI,
there will be a new model
that we figure out.
CA: From the point of view, I mean,
creative people are some
of the angriest people right now
or the most scared people about AI.
And the difference between
feeling your work is being stolen from you
and your future is being stolen from you,
and feeling your work is being amplified
and can be amplified,
those are such different feelings.
And if we could shift
to the other one, to the second one,
I think that really changes how much
humanity as a whole embraces all this.
SA: Well, again, I would say
some creative people are very upset.
Some creatives are like,
"This is the most amazing tool ever,
I'm doing incredible new work."
But you know like
it’s definitely a change.
And I have a lot of like
empathy to people who are just like,
"I wish this change weren't happening.
I liked the way things were before."
CA: But in principle, you can calculate
from any given prompt how much ...
there should be some way
of being able to calculate
what percentage of a subscription,
revenue or whatever
goes towards each answer.
In principle, it should be possible
if one could get the rest
of the rules figured out.
It's obviously complicated.
You could calculate some kind
of revenue share, no?
SA: If you're a musician and you spend
your whole life, your whole childhood,
listening to music,
and then you get an idea
and you go compose a song
that is inspired by what
you've heard before,
but a new direction,
it'd be very hard for you to say like,
this much was from this song
I heard when I was 11.
CA: That's right.
But we're talking here about the situation
where someone specifically
in a prompt names someone.
SA: Well, again,
right now, if you try to like,
go generate an image in a named style,
we just say that artist
is living, we don't do it.
But I think it would be cool
to figure out a new model
where if you say,
I want to do it in the name
of this artist and they opt in,
there's a revenue model there.
I think that's a good thing to explore.
CA: So, I think the world should help you
figure out that model quickly.
And I think it will make
a huge difference actually.
I want to switch topics quickly.
(Applause)
The battle between
your model and open source.
How much were you shaken up
by the arrival of DeepSeek?
SA: I think open source
has an important place.
We actually, just last night,
hosted our first community session
to kind of decide the parameters
of our open-source model
and how we want to shape it.
We're going to do a very
powerful open-source model.
I think this is important.
We're going to do something
near the frontier, I think,
better than any current
open-source model out there.
This will not be all --
there will be people who will use this
in ways that some people in this room,
maybe you or I, don’t like.
But there is going to be an important
place for open-source models
as part of the constellation here.
And, you know, I think
we were late to act on that,
but we're going to do it really well now.
CA: I mean, you're spending
it seems, like an order,
or even orders of magnitude more
than DeepSeek allegedly spent,
although I know there's
controversy around that.
Are you confident that the actual
better model is going to be recognized?
Or are you actually like,
isn't this in some ways life-threatening
to the notion that, yeah,
by going to massive scale,
tens of billions of dollars of investment,
we can maintain an incredible lead.
SA: All day long, I call people
and beg them to give us their GPUs.
We are so incredibly constrained.
Our growth is going like this.
DeepSeek launched,
and it didn’t seem to impact it.
There's other stuff that's happening.
CA: Tell us about the growth, actually.
You gave me a shocking
number backstage there.
SA: I have never seen
growth in any company,
one that I've been involved with or not,
like this, like the growth of ChatGPT.
It's really fun.
I feel like great, deeply honored.
But it is crazy to live through,
and our teams are exhausted and stressed.
And we’re trying to keep things up.
CA: How many users do you have now?
SA: I think the last time we said
was 500 million weekly actives,
and it is growing very rapidly.
CA: I mean, you told me that like
doubled in just a few weeks.
Like in terms of compute
or in terms of ...
SA: I said that privately, but I guess ...
CA: Oh.
(Laughter)
I misremembered, Sam, I'm sorry.
We can edit that out of the thing
if you really want to.
And no one here would tweet it.
SA: It's growing very fast.
(Laughter)
CA: So you're confident,
you're seeing it grow,
take off like a rocket ship,
you're releasing incredible
new models all the time.
What are you seeing in your best
internal models right now
that you haven't yet shared with the world
but you would love to here on this stage?
SA: So first of all, you asked about,
are we worried about this
model or that model?
There will be a lot
of intelligent models in the world.
Very smart models will be
commoditized to some degree.
I think we’ll have the best,
and for some use you'll want that.
But like, honestly,
the models are now so smart
that for most of the things
most people want to do,
they're good enough.
I hope that'll change over time
because people will raise
their expectations.
But like, if you're kind of
using ChatGPT as a standard user,
the model capability is very smart.
But we have to build a great product,
not just a great model.
And so there will be a lot of people
with great models,
and we will try to build the best product.
And people want their image-gen,
you know, you saw some
Sora examples for video earlier.
They want to integrate it
with all their stuff.
We just launched a new feature,
it's still called Memory,
but it's way better
than the Memory before,
where this model will get to know you
over the course of your lifetime.
And we have a lot more stuff
to come to build
like this great integrated product.
And, you know, I think
people will stick with that.
So there will be many models,
but I think we will, I hope,
continue to focus on building the best
defining product in this space.
CA: I mean after I saw
your announcement yesterday
that ChatGPT will know all
of your query history,
I entered, "Tell me about me,
ChatGPT, from all you know."
And my jaw dropped, Sam, it was shocking.
It knew who I was
and all these sort of interests
that hopefully mostly were
pretty much appropriate and shareable.
But it was astonishing.
And I felt the sense of real excitement,
a little bit queasy,
but mainly excitement, actually,
at how much more that would allow it
to be useful to me.
SA: One of our researchers
tweeted, you know,
kind of like yesterday or this morning,
that the upload happens bit by bit.
It’s not you know, that you plug
your brain in one day.
But you will talk to ChatGPT
over the course of your life
and some day, maybe if you want,
it'll be listening to you
throughout the day
and sort of observing what you're doing,
and it'll get to know you
and it'll become this extension
of yourself, this companion,
this thing that just tries to,
like, help you be the best,
do the best you can.
CA: In the movie "Her,"
the AI basically announces
that she's read all of his emails
and decided he's a great writer
and you know, persuades
a publisher to publish him.
That might be coming
sooner than we think.
SA: I don't think it will happen
exactly like that, but yeah,
I think something
in the direction where AI --
you don’t have to just,
like, go to ChatGPT or whatever
and say, I have a question,
give me an answer.
But you're getting like,
proactively pushed things that help you,
that make you better or whatever.
That does seem like it's soon.
CA: So what have you seen
that's coming up, internally,
that you think is going
to blow people's minds?
Give us at least a hint
of what the next big jaw dropper is.
SA: The thing that I'm personally
most excited about
is AI for science at this point.
I am a big believer
that the most important
driver of the world
and people's lives getting better
and better is new scientific discovery.
We can do more things with less,
we sort of push back the frontier
of what's possible.
We're starting to hear
a lot from scientists
with our latest models
that they're actually just more productive
than they were before.
That's actually mattering
to what they can discover.
CA: What’s the plausible near-term
discovery, like, room temperature --
SA: Superconductors?
CA: Superconducting, yeah.
Is that possible?
SA: I don't think that's prevented
by the laws of physics.
So it should be possible.
But we don't know for sure.
I think you'll start to see some ...
meaningful progress against disease
with AI-assisted tools.
You know, physics maybe
takes a little bit longer,
but I hope for it.
So that's like, one direction.
Another that I think is big
is starting pretty soon,
like in the coming months.
Software development
has already been pretty transformed.
Like it’s quite amazing how different
the process of creating software is now
than it was two years ago.
But I expect like another move
that big in the coming months
as agentic software engineering
really starts to happen.
CA: I've heard engineers say
that they've had
almost like religious-like moments
with some of the new models
where suddenly, they can do
in an afternoon
what would have taken them two years.
SA: Yeah, it's like mind --
it really like, that’s been one
of my big “feel the AGI” moments.
CA: But talk about what
is the scariest thing that you've seen.
Because like, outside,
a lot of people picture you as,
you know, you have access to this stuff.
And we hear all these rumors
coming out of AI,
and it's like, "Oh my God,
they've seen consciousness,"
or "They've seen AGI,"
or "They've seen some kind
of apocalypse coming."
Have you seen,
has there been a scary moment
when you've seen something
internally and thought,
"Uh oh, we need to pay attention to this?"
SA: There have been like moments of awe.
And I think with that is always like,
how far is this going to go?
What is this going to be?
But there's no like,
we don't secretly have,
we're not secretly sitting
on a conscious model or something
that's capable of self-improvement
or anything like that.
You know, I ...
people have very different views of what
the big AI risks are going to be.
And I myself have like
evolved on thinking
about where we're going to see those.
I continue to believe there will come
very powerful models
that people can misuse in big ways.
People talk a lot about the potential
for new kinds of bioterror,
models that can present
like a real cybersecurity challenge,
models that are capable
of self-improvement
in a way that leads
to some sort of loss of control.
So I think there are big risks there.
And then there's a lot of other stuff,
which honestly is kind of
what I think, many people mean,
where people talk about disinformation
or models saying things
that they don't like or things like that.
CA: Sticking with the first of those,
do you check for that
internally before release?
SA: Of course, yeah.
So we have this preparedness framework
that outlines how we do that.
CA: I mean, you've had some
departures from your safety team.
How many people have departed,
why have they left?
SA: We have, I don't know
the exact number,
but there are clearly different views
about AI safety systems.
I would really point to our track record.
There are people who will say
all sorts of things.
You know, something like 10 percent
of the world uses our systems now a lot.
And we are very proud
of the safety track record.
CA: But track record
isn't the issue in a way --
SA: No, it kind of is.
CA: Because we're talking
about an exponentially growing power
where we fear that we may wake up one day
and the world is ending.
So it's really not about track record,
it's about plausibly saying
that the pieces are in place
to shut things down quickly
if we see a danger.
SA: Yeah, no, of course,
of course that's important.
You don't, like, wake up one day and say,
"Hey, we didn't have
any safety process in place.
Now we think the model is really smart.
So now we have to care about safety."
You have to care about it
all along this exponential curve.
Of course the stakes increase,
and there are big challenges.
But the way we learn
how to build safe systems
is this iterative process
of deploying them to the world,
getting feedback,
while the stakes are relatively low,
learning about like,
this is something we have to address.
And I think as we move
into these agentic systems,
there's a whole big category of new things
we have to learn to address.
CA: So let's talk about agentic systems
and the relationship between that and AGI.
I think there's confusion
out there, I'm confused.
So artificial general intelligence,
it feels like ChatGPT is already
a general intelligence.
I can ask it about anything,
and it comes back
with an intelligent answer.
Why isn't that AGI?
SA: It doesn't ...
First of all, you can't ask it anything.
That's very nice of you to say,
but there's a lot of things
that it's still embarrassingly bad at.
But even if we fixed those,
which hopefully we will,
it doesn't continuously learn and improve.
It can't go get better at something
that it's currently weak at.
It can't go discover new science
and update its understanding and do that.
And it also kind of can't,
even if we lower the bar,
it can't just sort of do
any knowledge work
you could do in front of a computer.
I actually, even without
the sort of ability
to get better at something
it doesn't know yet,
I might accept that
as a definition of AGI.
But the current systems,
you can't say like, hey,
go do this task for my job,
and it goes off and clicks
around the internet
and calls someone and looks
at your files and does it.
And without that,
it feels definitely short of it.
CA: I mean, do you guys have internally
a clear definition of what AGI is,
and when do you think
that we may be there?
SA: It's like the joke,
if you’ve got 10 OpenAI
researchers in a room
and ask to define AGI,
you’d get 14 definitions.
CA: That's worrying, though, isn't it?
Because that has been
the mission initially,
“We’re going to be
the first to get to AGI.
We'll do so safely.
But we don't have a clear
definition of what it is."
SA: I was going to finish the answer.
CA: Sorry.
SA: What I think matters though,
and what people want to know
is not where is this one,
you know, magic moment of, “We finished.”
But given that what looks
like is going to happen
is that the models are just going to get
smarter and more capable
and smarter and more capable,
on this long exponential,
different people will call it AGI
at different points.
But we all agree it’s going to go
way, way past that.
You know, to whatever you want
to call these systems
that get much more capable than we are.
The thing that matters
is how do we talk about a system
that is safe through all
of these steps and beyond,
as the system gets
more capable than we are,
as the system can do things
that we don't totally understand.
And I think more important
than when is AGI coming
and what's the definition of it,
it's recognizing that we are
in this unbelievable exponential curve.
And you can, you know,
say this is what I think AGI is.
You can say you think
this is what you think AGI is.
Someone else can say
superintelligence is out here,
but we're going to have to contend
and get wonderful benefits
from this incredible system.
And so I think we should
shift the conversation
away from what's the AGI moment
to a recognition that,
like, this thing is not going to stop,
it's going to go way beyond
what any of us would call AGI.
And we have to build a society
to get the tremendous benefits of this
and figure out how to make it safe.
CA: Well, one of the conversations
this week has been
that the real change moment is --
I mean, AGI is a fuzzy thing,
but what is clear is agentic AI --
when AI is set free
to pursue projects on its own
and to put the pieces together --
you’ve actually,
you've got a thing called Operator
which starts to do this.
And I tried it out.
You know, I wanted to book a restaurant,
and it's kind of incredible.
It kind of can go ahead and do it,
but this is what it said.
You know, it was an intriguing process.
And, you know, “Give me your credit
card” and everything else,
and I declined on this case to go forward.
But I think this is the challenge
that people are going to have.
It's kind of like,
it's an incredible superpower.
It's a little bit scary.
And Yoshua Bengio, when he spoke here,
said that agentic AI is the thing
to pay attention to.
This is when everything could go wrong
as we give power to AI
to go out onto the internet to do stuff.
I mean, going out onto the internet
was always, in the sci-fi stories,
the moment where, you know,
escape happened and potential --
things could go horribly wrong.
How do you both release agentic AI
and have guardrails in place
that it doesn't go too far?
SA: First of all, obviously you
can choose not to do this and say,
I don't want this. I'm going
to call the restaurant
and read them my credit card
over the phone.
CA: I could choose,
but someone else might say,
“Oh, go out, ChatGPT
onto the internet at large
and rewrite the internet to make it
better for humans,” or whatever.
SA: The point I was going to make
is just with any new technology,
it takes a while for people
to get comfortable.
I remember when I wouldn't
put my credit card on the internet
because my parents had convinced me
someone was going to read the number,
and you had to fill out the form
and then call them.
And then we kind of all said,
OK, we’ll build anti-fraud systems,
and we can get comfortable with this.
I think people are going to be slow
to get comfortable with agentic AI
in many ways.
But I also really agree
with what you said,
which is that even if some people
are comfortable with it and some aren't,
we are going to have AI systems
clicking around the internet.
And this is, I think,
the most interesting and consequential
safety challenge we have yet faced.
Because AI that you give access
to your systems, your information,
your ability to click around
on your computer,
now, those, you know,
when AI makes a mistake,
it's much higher stakes.
It is the gate on --
so we talked earlier
about safety and capability.
I kind of think they're increasingly
becoming one-dimensional.
Like a good product is a safe product.
You will not use our agents
if you do not trust
that they’re not going to like
empty your bank account
or delete your data
or who knows what else.
And so people want to use agents
that they can really trust,
that are really safe.
And I think we are gated
on our ability to make progress
on our ability to do that.
But it's a fundamental part
of the product.
CA: In a world where agency is out there
and say that, you know,
maybe it’s open models
are widely distributed
and someone says,
"OK, AGI,
I want you to go out onto the internet
and, you know,
spread a meme however you can
that X people are evil,”
or whatever it is.
It doesn't have to be
an individual choice.
A single person could let that agent
out there, and the agent could decide,
"Well, in order to execute
on that function,
I've got to copy myself everywhere,"
and, you know.
Are there red lines that you have
clearly drawn internally,
where you know what
the danger moments are,
and that we cannot put out
something that could go beyond this?
SA: Yeah, so this is the purpose
of our preparedness framework.
And we'll update that over time.
But we’ve tried to outline where we think
the most important danger moments are,
or what the categories are,
how we measure that,
and how we would mitigate something
before releasing it.
I can tell from the conversation
you're not a big AI fan.
CA: Actually, on the contrary,
I use it every day.
I'm awed by it.
I think this is an incredible
time to be alive.
I wouldn't be alive any other time,
and I cannot wait to see where it goes.
We've been holding ...
I think it's essential to hold ...
like we can’t divide people
into those camps.
You have to hold a passionate
belief in the possibility,
but not be overseduced by it
because things could go horribly wrong.
(Applause)
SA: What I was going to say
is I totally understand that.
I totally understand looking at this
and saying this is an unbelievable
change coming to the world.
And, you know, maybe I don't want this,
or maybe I love parts of it.
Maybe I love talking to ChatGPT,
but I worry about what's going
to happen to art,
and I worry about the pace of change,
and I worry about these agents
clicking around the internet.
And maybe, on balance,
I wish this weren't happening.
Or maybe I wish it were
happening a little slower.
Or maybe I wish it were happening in a way
where I could pick and choose what parts
of progress were going to happen.
And I think, the fear is totally rational.
Sort of, the anxiety is totally rational.
We all have a lot of it, too.
But ...
A, there will be tremendous upside.
Obviously, you know,
you use it every day, you like it.
B ...
I really believe that society
figures out, over time,
with some big mistakes along the way,
how to get technology right.
And C, this is going to happen.
This is like a discovery
of fundamental physics
that the world now knows about.
And it's going to be part of our world.
And I think this conversation
is really important.
I think talking about these
areas of danger
[is] really important to talk about.
New economic models are really important.
But we have to embrace this
with like, caution but not fear,
or we will get run by with other people
that use AI to do better.
CA: You've actually been one of the most
eloquent proponents of safety.
You testified in the Senate.
I think you said basically
that we should form a new safety agency
that licenses any effort,
ie. it will refuse
to license certain efforts.
Do you still believe
in that policy proposal?
SA: I have learned more
about how the government works.
I don't think this is quite
the right policy proposal.
CA: What is the right policy proposal?
SA: But, I do think the idea
that as these systems get more advanced
and have legitimate global impact,
we need some way, you know,
maybe the companies themselves
put together the right framework
or the right sort of model for this,
but we need some way
that very advanced models
have external safety testing.
And we understand when we get close
to some of these danger zones.
I very much still believe in that.
CA: Struck me as ironic
that a safety agency
might be what we want,
and yet agency is
the very thing that is unsafe.
There's something odd
about the language there, but anyway.
SA: Can I say one more thing on that?
I do think this concept of
we need to define
rigorous testing for models,
understand what the threats
that we, collectively, society,
most want to focus on,
and make sure that as models
are getting more capable,
we have a system where we all
get to understand
what's being released in the world.
I think this is really important.
And I think we’re not far away
from models that are going to be
of great public interest in that sense.
CA: So Sam, I asked
your o1-pro reasoning model,
which is incredibly --
SA: Thank you for the 200 dollars.
CA: (Laughs) 200 dollars a month.
It's a bargain at the price.
I said, what is the single most
penetrating question I could ask you?
It thought about it for two minutes.
Two minutes.
You want to see the question?
SA: I do.
CA: "Sam, given that you're
helping create technology
that could reshape the destiny
of our entire species,
who granted you (or anyone)
the moral authority to do that?”
(Laughter)
"And how are you personally
accountable if you're wrong?"
SA: No, it was good.
CA: That was impressive.
SA: You've been asking me versions
of this for the last half hour.
What do you think?
(Laughter and applause)
CA: What I would say is this.
Here's my version of that question.
SA: But no answer?
CA: What was your question to me?
SA: How would you answer that one?
CA: In your shoes?
SA: Or as an outsider.
CA: I don't know.
I am puzzled by you.
I’m kind of awed by you.
Because you’ve built one of the most
astonishing things out there.
There are two narratives
about you out there.
One is, you know, you are this incredible
visionary who's done the impossible,
and you shocked the world.
With far fewer people than Google,
you came out with something
that was much more powerful
than anything being done.
I mean, it is amazing what you've built.
But the other narrative
is that you have shifted ground,
that you've shifted from being OpenAI,
this open thing,
to the allure of building
something super powerful.
And you know, you’ve lost
some of your key people.
There's a narrative out there.
Some people believe that you're not
to be trusted in this space.
I would love to know who you are.
What is your narrative about yourself?
What are your core values, Sam,
that can give us, the world, confidence
that someone with so much
power here is entitled to it?
SA: Look, I think like anyone else,
I'm a nuanced character
that doesn't reduce well
to one dimension here.
You know, probably some
of the good things are true
and probably some
of the criticism is true.
In terms of OpenAI,
our goal is to make AGI and distribute it,
make it safe, for the broad
benefit of humanity.
I think by all accounts,
we have done a lot in that direction.
Clearly our tactics
have shifted over time.
I think we didn't really know
what we were going to be
when we grew up.
We didn't think we would have
to build a company around this.
We learned a lot about how it goes
and the realities of what these systems
were going to take from capital.
But I think we've been,
in terms of putting incredibly capable AI
with a high degree of safety
in the hands of a lot of people,
and giving them tools to sort of
do whatever amazing
things they're going to do,
I think it'd be hard to give us
a bad grade on that.
I do think it's fair that we should
be open sourcing more.
I think it was reasonable
for all of the reasons
that you asked earlier,
as we weren't sure about the impact
these systems were going to have
and how to make them safe,
that we acted with precaution.
I think a lot of your questions earlier
would suggest at least some sympathy
to the fact that we've operated that way.
But now I think we have a better
understanding, as a world,
and it is time for us to put very
capable open systems out into the world.
If you invite me back next year,
you will probably yell at me
for somebody who has misused
these open-source systems,
and say, "Why did you do that?"
You know, "You should have
not gone back to your open roots."
But, you know, there's trade offs
in everything we do.
And we are one player, one voice,
in this AI revolution,
trying to do the best we can
and kind of steward this technology
into the world in a responsible way.
We've definitely made mistakes,
we'll definitely make more in the future.
On the whole, I think we have,
over the last almost decade,
it’s been a long time now,
you know, we have mostly done
the thing we’ve set out to do.
We have a long way to go in front of us.
Our tactics will shift more in the future,
but adherence to this sort of mission
and what we're trying to do,
I think very strong.
(Applause)
CA: You posted this --
Well, OK, so here's the Ring of Power
from "Lord of the rings."
Your rival, I will say,
not your best friend at the moment,
Elon Musk, claimed that, you know,
he thought that you'd been corrupted
by the Ring of Power.
An allegation that, by the way --
(Laughter)
SA: Hi, Steve.
CA: An allegation that could
be applied to Elon as well,
you know, to be fair.
But I'm curious, people, you have --
SA: I might respond.
I'm thinking about it.
I might say something.
(Laughter)
CA: It's in everyone's mind,
as we see technology CEOs
get more powerful,
get richer,
is can they handle it,
or does it become irresistible?
Does the power and the wealth
make it impossible
to sometimes do the right thing
and you just have to cling
tightly to that ring?
What do you think?
I mean, do you feel that ring sometimes?
SA: How do you think I'm doing,
relative to other CEOs,
that have gotten a lot of power
and changed how they act
or done a bunch of stuff in the world,
like how do you think?
(Applause)
CA: You have a beautiful ...
you are not a rude, angry person
who comes out and says
aggressive things to other people.
SA: Sometimes I do that.
That's my single vice, you know?
(Laughter)
CA: No, I think in the way
that you personally conduct yourself,
it's impressive.
I mean, the question some people ask is,
is that the real you or, you know,
is there something else going on?
SA: No, I'll take the feedback.
You put up the Sauron Ring of Power
or whatever that thing is.
So I'll take the feedback.
What is like something I have done
where you think
I've been corrupted by power?
CA: I think the fear is
that just the transition
of OpenAI to a for-profit model,
is, you know, some people say,
well, there you go.
You got corrupted
by the desire for wealth.
You know, at one point there was going
to be no equity in it.
It will make you fabulously wealthy.
By the way, I don't think
that is your motivation, personally.
I think you want to build stuff
that is insanely cool.
And what I worry about
is the competitive feeling
that you see other people doing it,
and it makes it impossible
to develop at the right pace.
But you tell me, if you don't
feel that, like, what ...
so few people in the world have the kind
of capability and potential you have,
we don't know what it feels like.
What does it feel like?
SA: Shockingly, the same as before.
I think you can get used
to anything step by step.
I think if I were like transported
from 10 years ago
to right now, all at once,
it would feel very disorienting.
But anything does become
sort of the new normal,
so it doesn't feel any different.
And it's strange to be sitting here
talking about this,
but like, you know,
the monotony of day-to-day life,
which I mean in the best possible way,
feels exactly the same.
CA: You're the same person.
SA: I mean, I'm sure
I'm not in all sorts of ways,
but I don't feel any different.
CA: This was a beautiful thing
you posted, your son.
I mean, that last thing you said there,
"I've never felt love like this,"
I think any parent in the room
so knows that feeling,
that wild biological
feeling that humans have
and AIs never will,
of you’re holding your kid.
And I'm wondering whether
that's changed how you think
about things like if, you know,
say, here's a red box,
here's a black box
with the red button on it,
you can press that button
and you give your son
likely the most unbelievable life,
but also you inject a 10 percent chance
that he gets destroyed.
Do you press that button?
SA: In the literal case, no.
If the question is, do I feel
like I'm doing that with my work,
the answer is, I also
don't feel like that.
Having a kid changed a lot of things.
And by far the most amazing thing
that has ever happened to me,
like everything everybody says is true.
A thing my cofounder Ilya
said once is, I don’t know.
This is a paraphrase, something like,
"I don't know what the meaning of life is,
but for sure it has something
to do with babies."
And it's like, unbelievably accurate.
It changed how much I’m willing to
like spend time on certain things
and like the kind of cost
of not being with my kid
is just like crazily high.
And I ...
But, you know, I really cared about
like not destroying the world before.
I really care about it now.
I didn't need a kid for that part.
(Applause)
I mean, I definitely
think more about like
what the future will be like
for him in particular,
but I feel a responsibility
to do the best thing I can
for the future of everybody.
CA: Tristan Harris gave
a very powerful talk here this week
in which he said that the key
problem, in his view,
was that you and your peers
in these other models
all feel basically,
that the development
of advanced AI is inevitable,
that the race is on,
and that there is no choice
but to try and win that race
and to do so as responsibly as you can.
And maybe there’s a scenario
where your superintelligent AI
can act as a brake on everyone else's
or something like that.
But that the very fact that everyone
believes it is inevitable,
that is a pathway
to serious risk and instability.
Do you think that you and your peers
do feel that it's inevitable,
and can you see any pathway out of that
where we could collectively agree
to just slow things down a bit,
have society as a whole
weigh in a bit and say,
no, you know, we don't want this
to happen quite as fast.
It's too disruptive.
SA: First of all,
I think people slow
things down all the time
because the technology is not ready,
because something's not safe enough,
because something doesn't work.
There are, I think, all of the efforts
hold on things, pause on things,
delay on things,
don't release certain capabilities.
So I think this happens.
And again, this is where I think
the track record does matter.
If we were rushing things out
and there were all sorts of problems,
either the product didn’t work
as people wanted it to
or there were real safety issues
or other things there.
And I will come back to a change we made,
I think you could do that.
There is communication between most
of the efforts, with one exception.
I think all of the efforts
care a lot about AI safety.
And I think that --
CA: Who's the exception?
SA: I'm not going to say.
And I think that there's really
deep care to get this right.
I think the caricature of this
as just like this crazy
race or sprint or whatever,
misses the nuance of people are trying
to put out models quickly
and make great products for people.
But people feel the impact
of this so incredibly that ...
you know, I think if you could go
sit in a meeting in OpenAI
or other companies, you'd be like,
oh, these people are really
kind of caring about this.
Now we did make a change recently
to how we think about one part of
what's traditionally
been understood as safety.
Which is, with our new image model,
we've given users much more freedom
on what we would traditionally
think about as speech harms.
You know, if you try
to get offended by the model,
will the model let you be offended?
And in the past, we've had much
tighter guardrails on this.
But I think part of model alignment
is following what the user
of a model wants it to do
within the very broad bounds
of what society decides.
So if you ask the model to depict a bunch
of violence or something like that
or to sort of reinforce some stereotype,
there's a question of whether
or not it should do that.
And we're taking a much more
permissive stance.
There's a place where that starts
to interact with real-world harms
that we have to figure out how
to draw the line for,
but, you know, I think there will be cases
where a company says, OK,
we've heard the feedback from society.
People really don't want
models to censor them
in ways that they don't think make sense.
That's a fair safety negotiation.
CA: But to the extent
that this is a collective,
a problem of collective belief,
the solution to those kinds
of problems is to bring people together
and meet at one point
and make a different agreement.
If there was a group of people, say,
here or out there in the world
who were willing to host a summit
of the best ethicists, technologists,
but not too many people, small,
and you and your peers
to try to crack what agreed safety
lines could be across the world,
would you be willing to attend?
Would you urge your colleagues to come?
SA: Of course,
but I'm much more interested
in what our hundreds of millions
of users want as a whole.
I think a lot of the room
has historically been decided
in small elite summits.
One of the cool new things about AI
is our AI can talk to everybody on Earth,
and we can learn the collective
value preference of what everybody wants,
rather than have a bunch of people
who are, like, blessed by society
to sit in a room and make these decisions,
I think that's very cool.
(Applause)
And I think you will see us
do more in that direction.
And when we have gotten things wrong,
because the elites in the room
had a different opinion
about what people wanted
for the guardrails on image-gen
than what people actually wanted,
and we couldn't point to real-world harm,
so we made that change.
I'm proud of that.
(Applause)
CA: There is a long track record
of unintended consequences
coming out of the actions
of hundreds of millions of people.
SA: Also 100 people
in a room making a decision.
CA: And the hundreds of millions of people
don't have control over,
they don't necessarily see
what the next step could lead to.
SA: I am hopeful that --
that is totally accurate
and totally right --
I am hopeful that AI can help us be wiser,
make better decisions,
can talk to us, and if we say,
hey, I want thing X,
you know, rather than like,
the crowds spin that up,
AI can say, hey, totally
understand that's what you want.
If that's what you want
at the end of this conversation,
you're in control, you pick.
But have you considered it
from this person's perspective
or the impact it will have on this?
I think AI can help us be wiser
and make better collective governance
decisions than we could before.
CA: We're out of time.
Sam, I'll give you the last word.
What kind of world do you believe,
all things considered,
your son will grow up into?
SA: I remember -- it's so long ago now,
I don't know when the first iPad came out.
Is it like 15 years, something like that?
I remember watching
a YouTube video at the time,
of like a little toddler
sitting in a doctor's office
waiting room or something,
and there was a magazine,
like one of those old,
you know, glossy-cover magazines,
and the toddler had his hand on it
and was going like this and kind of angry.
And to that toddler,
it was like a broken iPad.
And he never, she never thought
of a world that didn't have, you know,
touch screens in them.
And to all the adults watching this,
it was this amazing thing
because it was like
it's so new, it's so amazing,
it's a miracle.
Of course, you know, magazines
are the way the world works.
My kid, my kids hopefully,
will never be smarter than AI.
They will never grow up in a world
where products and services
are not incredibly smart,
incredibly capable.
They will never grow up in a world
where computers don't just
kind of understand you.
And do, you know, for some definition
of whatever you can imagine,
whatever you can imagine.
It'll be a world of incredible
material abundance.
It'll be a world where
the rate of change is incredibly fast
and amazing new things are happening.
And it’ll be a world where,
like individual ...
ability, impact, whatever,
is just so far beyond
what a person can do today.
I hope that my kids and all of your kids
will look back at us with some like
pity and nostalgia
and be like, "They lived
such horrible lives.
They were so limited.
The world sucked so much."
I think that's great.
(Applause)
CA: It's incredible what you've built.
It really is, it's unbelievable.
I think over the next few years,
you're going to have
some of the biggest opportunities,
the biggest moral challenges,
the biggest decisions to make
of perhaps any human
in history, pretty much.
You should know that everyone
here will be cheering you on
to do the right thing.
SA: We will do our best,
thank you very much.
CA: Thank you for coming to TED.
(Applause)
Thank you.
SA: Thank you very much.